I think an epidemic either naturally
caused or intentionally caused is the
most likely thing to cause say 10
million excess deaths and that it's
pretty surprising how little
preparedness there is for it now it's
tricky because this is a global problem
so you know how two countries work
together which countries should put up
what resources and you know every aspect
of it the the resources to go engage in
the affected countries the allocation
decisions as we've seen various flu
scares come along we haven't had a super
good response so the paradigm attic
examples are smallpox for an
intentionally cause thing that there was
a simulation called dark winter that
didn't come out very well
ie smallpox scored one and humanity
scored zero flu epidemics where you know
we always talk about the potential
recurrence of a 19:17 like Spanish flu
problem and then Ebola which although it
was much smaller there was some luck
involved in that because it wasn't
spread through respiratory contact the
reproductive rate was a lot lower and
you know as basically people who were
sick or dead who were doing most of the
transmission and so through a lot of
heroic effort and a little bit of luck
it stayed under control and was largely
contained to the three countries you
know Zika is still recent enough that
the understanding of okay should we have
seen it sooner even understanding what
the steady-state case looks like in
terms of new new genus T wide showed up
and in South America and didn't show up
in Africa I know people are hard at work
trying to answer these questions so the
lessons from that one I'm not trying to
minimize that one at all but I think
they're less clear than them from Ebola
you know I think it's too bad in a way
that we have had to have these
epidemics to get us to move but the
timing in terms of the science the
recognition that epidemics don't respect
borders and so whether you're looking at
this through humanitarian lens or a
purely domestic lens these are
investments that that should be made I
think this is a very positive stuff